Add section on `external` (#5481)
dart-lang/site-www: src/language/functions.md

}
```

## External functions {#external}

> An external function is a function whose body is provided separately from its declaration.

Reviewer: Starting with this does seem safer, thanks! However, do consider briefly introducing the following code snippet/syntax, otherwise it's not clear why it's there/what it means.

```dart
external void someFunc(int i);
```

External functions can be top-level functions, [instance methods][],
[getters or setters][], or [non-redirecting constructors][].

> [Instance variables][] can be `external` too,
> and essentially equate to a getter or setter on the external value. 

Reviewer 2: We don't even have to say 'essentially' --- a final external variable is just a different syntax specifying an external getter, and a non-final external variable is just a different syntax specifying an external getter and an external setter. Also, we can't know whether there is anything out there that matches the description 'external value', it's perfectly possible that such getters/setters are bound to C functions, with no direct connection to anything that resembles a variable. Perhaps the text could be adjusted a bit like this:

```suggestion
An [instance variable][] can be `external` too,
which is equivalent to an external getter and (if the variable
is not `final`) an external setter.
```

It is also possible for a static variable to be external, and a library variable (aka a top-level variable), but not a local variable (and not a function parameter). I don't know if it's important to mention the static/library variants, that would depend on the level of detail/completeness which is customary and desired here.

}
```

## External functions {#external}

Declare a function `external` if its body is defined separately from its

> declaration in your Dart program. 

Reviewer: This sentence being imperative makes me slightly concerned developers will misinterpret it as "if you make a function `external` in one file, **you** can implement it in another **Dart** file". Is that worry justified?

If so, would it make sense to instead just mention _how_ they are declared and rely on the various interop docs for actual instructions? Or move up the discussion from the last paragraph about when it appears, since that's the main reason we're documenting it? Not sure 😕 

Maybe I'm overthinking it. I'll think some more but will leave this comment for now to get your thoughts :)

Author: No that's a really good point (in fact, it sounds like exactly the kind of question I'd leave in a review of someone else's work haha).

I do want to leave the last paragraph where it is (though your reasoning makes sense, I think since this is purely a reference section the first sentence should be a generic definition), but I think I'll restate the opening more or less as it's stated in the [spec](https://spec.dart.dev/DartLangSpecDraft.pdf#External%20Functions):

> An external function is a function whose body is provided separately from its declaration.

```dart
external void someFunc(int i);
```

External functions can be top-level functions, [instance methods][],
[getters or setters][], or [non-redirecting constructors][].
[Instance variables][] can be `external` too,
and essentially equate to a getter or setter on the external value. 

The `external` keyword usually appears in interop contexts,
to introduce type information for foreign functions or values,
and to make them usable in Dart. Implementation and usage is
heavily platform specific, so check out the interop docs on, for example,

> [C][] or [JavaScript][] to learn more.

Reviewer: This "C" in the raw markdown looks funny for some reason 😆. It's so short. Good thing Dart has 4 letters 👀

Author: > Good thing Dart has 4 letters 👀

Clearly the superior language 😆

[conditional expression]: /language/operators#conditional-expressions
[Flutter]: {{site.flutter}}
[trailing commas]: /language/collections#lists

[instance methods]: /language/methods#instance-methods
[getters or setters]: /language/methods#getters-and-setters
[non-redirecting constructors]: /language/constructors#redirecting-constructors

> [Instance variables]: /language/classes#instance-variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[instance variable]: /language/classes#instance-variables
```
